# Welcome to Studio v3

This release is a full rewrite of Studio, making it now cross-platform and no longer Windows-only.
But there are also lots of new and exciting features!

However, with such big changes, some issues are bound to remain. 
So if you encounter any bugs or have a feature request, please let me (`@psygamer`) know in the [Celeste Discord](https://discord.gg/celeste) or [open an issue](https://github.com/EverestAPI/CelesteTAS-EverestInterop/issues/new) on the GitHub page.

---

## Auto Complete

This is a massive new feature, making writing commands a lot easier. It's similar to how auto-complete works in most common code editors.

Simply start writing a command and it should pop up. Then you can either navigate it with the **arrow keys** or your mouse. Use **Tab** or **Enter** to insert the current suggestion.

This is especially useful for commands like `Set` or `Invoke`

$$image:Changelogs/v3.0.0/auto_complete.png$$

---

## Quick Edits

Along with auto-complete, Studio now supports quick edits:
These are small regions of text which you can jump to by pressing **(Shift +) Tab**.

Usually, quick-edits appear when you select an item from the auto-complete menu, but some other actions support them as well.

Once you're done editing them, you can press **Enter** to confirm, or **Escape** to cancel.

$$image:Changelogs/v3.0.0/quick_edit.png$$

---

## Context Actions

Context actions are simple actions you can perform **upon a region of inputs or commands**.
These include things like swapping actions, combining or separating inputs, and more!

Just put your cursor onto the line you want to edit, or select an entire region, and press **Alt + Enter** to open it.

_Note:_ If you've used Studio v2 before, some things from the right-click-menu have been now moved into context actions.

$$image:Changelogs/v3.0.0/context_actions.png$$

---

## Frame Operations

While trying out various input combinations (like while you're manipulating subpixels), frame operations can prove useful:

You can use them by just typing `+`/`-`/`*`/`/` followed by a number while having the cursor on an input.
Then simply press **Enter** to apply the operation.

For `+` and `-` you can also press **Arrow Up** or **Arrow Down** instead of **Enter** to "steal" those frames from the line above or below.

$$image:Changelogs/v3.0.0/frame_operations.png$$

---

## Snippets

Snippets are small sections of text or inputs, which can be inserted into a TAS.

You can either bind snippets to a **key combination** or **short text sequence** which pops up inside the auto-complete menu.

You can go about editing snippets inside `Settings > Snippets...`

$$image:Changelogs/v3.0.0/snippet.png$$

---

## Improved Info HUD

The built-in Info HUD has been upgraded to now also show the subpixel indicator.

Additionally, there is a new button in the top-right, allowing you to create a popout window for the Info HUD.

$$image:Changelogs/v3.0.0/info_hud.png$$

---

## Editing Quality-of-Life Features

There have been various quality-of-line improvements made to the editing experience:

\- The cursor now moves more intelligently on inputs
\- Comments will wrap onto the next line when too long
\- You can fold regions surrounded by comments which start with at least 2 `#`s
\- Room labels will now automatically be indexed

---

## Built-in Tools

You can now use common tools useful for TASing from directly inside Studio!

Currently, these include the following tools:

\- **Featherline:** Optimize feather movement for reaching a goal while avoiding obstacles
\- **Jadderline:** Small utility for TASing jelly ladders

However, more are planned for the future!

If you encounter any issues using these tools, please look at the `Help > About...` section inside them for information on who to contact.

---

## And now, happy TASing!

Apart from everything mentioned here, various smaller tweaks which have also been made.
For example, the settings have been overhauled and expanded.

If you have any feedback, please let us know, so we can make Studio better for everybody!

But enough text for now! Have fun TASing and hopefully some of these things are useful for you.
